# Nand2Tetris

This project contains my Java implementations of assembler, virtual machine and compiler for the Hack Platform and a Java-like language Jack that have been created by MIT professors **Noam Nisan** and **Shimon Schocken** for the [Nand2Tetris course](#nand2tetris-course).

## Usage

First, download the project and build it using Maven:

`mvn install`

This should create an executable `-jar-with-dependencies.jar` in the `/target` directory of the project. 
You can then run it as follows:

`java -jar <jarName> <moduleName> <fileOrDirectory>`

Where `<moduleName>` is `Assembler`, `VM` or `Compiler`.

For example: `java -jar Nand2Tetris.jar Assembler ./pong.asm`

If your input is incorrect, a help message will be printed to the console.

### Assembler

The assembler converts `.asm` files written in the Hack platform-specific assembly language (generally generated by the Virtual Machine) into `.hack` files containing processor instructions (strings of `0`s and `1`s).

Example content of input and output files:

Input (.asm) | Output (.hack)
----- | ------
@2<br>D=A<br>@0<br>M=D<br>@3<br>D=A<br>@0<br>M=D+M | 0000000000000010<br>1110110000010000<br>0000000000000000<br>1110001100001000<br>0000000000000011<br>1110110000010000<br>0000000000000000<br>1111000010001000

This adds 2 and 3 and saves it in Memory[0] by the way.

### Virtual Machine

`TODO` I've actually written it long ago and now that I'm so much smarter, I'm ashamed of how the code looks, so I won't put it up until I rewrite it. Stay tuned!

### Compiler

`TODO` I've actually written it long ago and now that I'm so much smarter, I'm ashamed of how the code looks, so I won't put it up until I rewrite it. Stay tuned!

### Testing

The project contains both unit and integration tests that can be run separately using Maven Surefire and Failsafe plugins.

To run unit tests (Surefire):

`mvn test`

To run integration tests (Failsafe):

`mvn verify`

### Nand2Tetris course

The problems solved here are part of the Nand2Tetris free online course. I highly recommend taking it, because it's a great learning experience that deepens your understanding of how computers work from the most basic logic components all the way up to the operating system. It's also a ton of fun :). You can learn more about the course on the [official website](http://nand2tetris.org/).

### License

Since this is a solution to problems that are part of an MIT course, it seems only fair that the source code is released under the MIT License.